h1. ComatoseEngine [v0.1.0]

*Fork of Polar Humen's Comatose Engine*, "http://github.com/polar/comatose_engine":http://github.com/polar/comatose_engine

h3. What's different in this fork

* Removed photo management, is this even necessary?
* Rewritten with HAML and SASS support
* Added Comatose-Rake-n-Bake, to autogenerate page structure based on Freemind Mind Map, "git://github.com/scullygroup/Comatose-Rake-n-Bake.git":git://github.com/scullygroup/Comatose-Rake-n-Bake.git

h3. Documentation

Comatose Engine is an Engines Plugin of the popular Comatose plugin, enhanced with associating photos with pages with the attachment_fu plugin.

It's intended for simple CMS support. Comatose Engine supports
* Nested pages
* Versioning
* Page markup in Textile, Markdown, RDoc, or easily add your own
* Page processing through Liquid or ERb
* Engines Ready for easy installation/migration
* Completely self-contained within plugin folder
* Can handle uploading images and associating with a page.

It's meant to be lean, mean, easily embedded, and easy to re-skin for
existing applications.

*Requirements:*
* RAILS VERSION 2.3.4
* The engines plugin for Rails 2.3.4

This plugin includes the following plugins in "engine_plugins", and they are git submodules.

  * acts_as_list
  * acts_as_tree
  * pagnating_find
  * respond_to_parent

You may have to remove them if they conflict with other versions that you are using.

h3. Getting ComatoseEngine Running


# From the command line
  <pre><code>
  $ rails site_name (create a rails app if you don't have one already)
  </code></pre>
# Install the engines plugin:
  <pre><code>
  $ script/plugin install git://github.com/lazyatom/engines.git
  </code></pre>
# Put the comatose engine plugin into plugins directory (use one of the following methods): 
  ** If you're not using git, and just want to add the source files:
    <pre><code>
    Download a tarball from https://github.com/polar/comatose-engine/tarball/master and unpack it into /vendor/plugins/comatose\_engine
    </code></pre>
    ** Using git, make a shallow clone of the comatose_engine repository:
      <pre><code>
      $ git clone --depth 1 git://github.com/polar/comatose-engine.git vendor/plugins/comatose_engine
      </code></pre>
    ** If you want to keep your comatose_engine plugin up to date using git, you'll have to add it as a submodule       ("http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/user-manual.html#submodules":http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/user-manual.html#submodules)
      <pre><code>
      git submodule add git://github.com/polar/comatose-engine.git vendor/plugins/comatose_engine
      git submodule init
      git submodule update
      </code></pre>
    ** Make sure you rename your CE directory to `comatose_engine` (note the underscore) if it isn't named that for some reason
# Create your database and modify your `config/database.yml` appropriately.
# Delete public/index.html (if you haven't already)
# Modify your environment.rb as indicated below:
  <pre><code>
    RAILS_GEM_VERSION = '2.2.2' unless defined? RAILS_GEM_VERSION
    require File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), 'boot')
    require File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), '../vendor/plugins/engines/boot')
    Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
      config.plugins = [:engines, :comatose_engine, :all]
      config.plugin_paths += ["#{RAILS_ROOT}/vendor/plugins/comatose_engine/engine_plugins"]
      ... Your stuff here ...
    end
    #Include your application configuration below
    require "#{RAILS_ROOT}/vendor/plugins/comatose_engine/engine_config/boot.rb"
  </code></pre>
# Modify your routes.rb as indicated below:
   If you want default routes from the plugin add this after any of your own existing routes, but before the default rails routes:
   <pre><code>map.from_plugin :comatose_engine</code></pre>
   Otherwise, follow the Comatose Description for routes.
   <pre><code>
     #map.resources "page_photos"
     #map.comatose_admin
     #map.comatose_root "home"
     #Install the default routes as the lowest priority. 
     map.connect ':controller/:action/:id'
     map.connect ':controller/:action/:id.:format'
  </code></pre>
# Generate the comatose engine migrations:
  <pre><code>
  $ script/generate plugin_migration
  </code></pre>
# From the command line:
  <pre><code>
  $ rake db:migrate
  </code></pre>
# You may need to change these lines in application_controller.rb (if you're not using cookie sessions):
  <pre><code>
    #See ActionController::RequestForgeryProtection for details
    #Uncomment the :secret if you're not using the cookie session store
    protect_from_forgery # :secret => 'your_secret_string'
  </code></pre>
# Run tests (remember, you must run `rake test` before you can run the comatose\_engine tests):
  <pre><code>
    $ rake test
    $ rake comatose_engine:test
  </code></pre>
# Start your server and check out your site!
  <pre><code>
    $ mongrel_rails start
    or
    $ ./script/server
  </code></pre>

You should be able to browse to http://127.0.0.1:3000/comatose_admin and start adding pages to your CMS.<br />
Browsing to http://127.0.0.1:3000/ will render your comatose pages if routing doesn't match any of your controllers.

h3. Optional Configuration

To override the default configuration, you configure Comatose in your `config/environment.rb` file. Here is an example configuration block:
<pre><code>
  Comatose.configure do |config|
    #Sets the text in the Admin UI's title area
    config.admin_title = "Site Content"
    config.admin_sub_title = "Content for the rest of us..."
  end
</code></pre>

Since this is Comatose, your Authorization and Admin Authorization procedures are still valid. Here's an example that uses the AuthenticationSystem as generated by the restful_authentication plugin:
<pre><code>
  Comatose.configure do |config|
    #Includes AuthenticationSystem in the ComatoseController
    config.includes << :authenticated_system
    
    #admin
    config.admin_title = "Comatose - TESTING"
    config.admin_sub_title = "Content for the rest of us..."
    
    #Includes AuthenticationSystem in the ComatoseAdminController
    config.admin_includes << :authenticated_system
    
    #Calls :login_required as a before_filter
    config.admin_authorization = :login_required
    
    #Returns the author name (login, in this case) for the current user
    config.admin_get_author do
      current_user.login
    end
  end
</code></pre>

However, now that Comatose is an Engines Plugin, you can just mix in methods in the ComatoseController and ComatoseAdminController.

## Other notes

Any views you create in your app directory will override those in `comatose_engine/app/views`.<br />
For example, you could create `RAILS_ROOT/app/views/layouts/application.html.haml` and have that include your own stylesheets, etc.

You can also override ComatoseEngine's controllers by creating identically-named controllers in your application's `app/controllers` directory.

h3. Extra Credit

This plugin includes the work of many wonderful contributors to the Railsphere.
Following are the specific libraries that are distributed with Comatose. If I've
missed someone/something please let me know.

 * Comatose by M@ McCray
 * Liquid by Tobias Luetke
 * RedCloth by _why
 * Acts as Versioned by Rick Olsen
 * Behaviors by Atomic Object LLC -- very nice BDD-like testing library
 * Engines by Lazy Tom


*Comatose Engine is released under the MIT license.*

* Engines, "http://github.com/lazytom/engines":http://github.com/lazytom/engines
* Getting Started, "http://comatose.rubyforge.org/getting-started-guide":http://comatose.rubyforge.org/getting-started-guide
* Liquid, "http://home.leetsoft.com/liquid":http://home.leetsoft.com/liquid
* Tobias Luetke, "http://blog.leetsoft.com":http://blog.leetsoft.com
* RedCloth, "http://whytheluckystiff.net/ruby/redcloth":http://whytheluckystiff.net/ruby/redcloth